---
title: "Combating mental AI fog"
summary: "Very quickly after I noticed the negative impact of AI tools on my workflow, I flipped the order of procedures, and instead of using them from the get-go, nowadays, I treat them more as a last validation step."
---

I was an early adopter of [GitHub Copilot](https://github.com/features/copilot). Initially, I was shocked at how much time I could save by delegating boilerplate code to this tool. But writing code is not the only thing I do, so how about regular writing? ChatGPT made everyone an OK writer. Quality of results aside, it is a fact that [generative AI tools generally improve performance](https://resources.github.com/learn/pathways/copilot/essentials/measuring-the-impact-of-github-copilot/). Right?

I have a few problems with it thogh. It is not fun! I spent years learning codeing and I am super proud of this skill. A few things became quicker after adopting some AI tools, but tons of fun disappeared. The joy of doing a thing is important, but the mental AI fog that occurred to me was much worse. I like the "mental AI fog" term coined by [Garrit Franke](https://garrit.xyz) on ["Mental AI Fog and how to cure it"](https://garrit.xyz/posts/2024-09-01-AI-fog).

> Instead of consuming too much AI generated content (which also applies), AI Fog describes the inability to produce content without the help of AI.

A few months after I started using GiHub Copilot, I started losing muscle memory for writing basic programing constructs. I had a terrifying moment of realisation when I opened a CodePen (as I do hundreds of times a day) and struggled to use a basic `switch` statement. Devastating and embaressing!

## Dumb things down as a remedy

Very quickly after I noticed the negative impact of AI tools on my workflow, I flipped the order of procedures, and instead of using them from the get-go, nowadays, I treat them more as a last validation step. I switched from a fancy, AI-overloaded code editor to a super simple one. ["The joy of learning Helix (and probably other modal, terminal-based editors)"](/the-joy-of-learning-helix-and-probably-other-modal-terminal-based-editors/) goes more in-depth about the switch. The fun is back!

My writing routine was also massively changed. Instead of starting with the AI-powered tool, I start with a handwritten draft using the [Apple Freeform app](https://www.apple.com/newsroom/2022/12/apple-launches-freeform-a-powerful-new-app-designed-for-creative-collaboration/) on my iPad Pro. There is something magical about scribbled sketches, crossed paragraphs and a maze of arrows on an infinite canvas. Translating handwritten ideas into a few paragraphs in the Markdown file doesn't take long. As a final validation of gramma and spelling, I run it through Grammarly or ChatGPT. "Change the tone of voice" or "make it shorter" defeats the purpose of writing something by myself in the first place, so I never use these commands. I spent time and effort expressing my thoughts, and I prefer them to be sketchy but mine instead of perfectly polished but generated by a tool. 

I don't want this post to be a rant for generative AI tools because I use them daily. I just wanted to share with you how I use them, to keep things fun without ever risking myself being in the "mental AI fog" again. Call me oldschool, or even stupid, but I find everything a lot more rewarding when I put some effort into it. Using a pen for writing feels good. Music sounds deeper from the spinning on the turntable record. The time it takes to develop an analogue camera film makes a picture more memorable. But all this is a story for another article.
