---
title: A look back at 2020
summary: ""
photo: 2020-12-28.jpg
draft: true
---

Who would have though that this year is going to be a little bit different. Exactly year ago, at the beginning of 2020, I was certain that this is going to be the best year of my life. Even tho we had a lot of madness going on, I delivered my presumption. I managed to make 2020 the best year of my life. After ["A look back at 2016"](/a-look-back-at-2016/), ["A look back at 2017"](/a-look-back-at-2017/), ["A look back at 2018"](/a-look-back-at-2018/) and ["A look back at 2019"](/a-look-back-at-2019/), it is time to compile the list of my personal and professional accomplishments from the past year.

## Professional

Pandemic sucks! Depression, anxiety, motivational and financial struggles were present all over the place. Somehow I managed to look at the whole situation as an opportunity for personal development and dedicated this time to fitness, books and growth of my soft skills. 

- soft skills
- working hard on pinitfor.me
- gave a talk with Rob at University of Leicester to computer science students
- guest in Mindera Yellowbox podcast

## Personal

- lost 15kg
- relationship rollercoster
- i understood what i expect form life and what really makes me happy
- year of personal development
- worked on personal growt
- invested a lot of free time in books
- watched few movies and played few computer games

## In 2020 I will…

- profesionally, cant tell you a lot but begining of a new year is the beginning of a new journy for me, but i am well excited about it
- just hope the world is going to move on
