---
title: "Top picks — 2022 July"
summary: "Working with the file system on Node.js, "
photo: "top-picks.jpg"
---

## [Working with the file system on Node.js](https://2ality.com/2022/06/nodejs-file-system.html)

This `fs` module guide by [Dr. Axel Rauschmayer](https://twitter.com/rauschma) is everything you need to grasp the basics of working with files system in Node.js. Even though I felt I was already familiar with it, I still learned much from this resource. I will surely use this article as a reference in the future.

## [m-cli](https://github.com/rgcr/m-cli)

This repository is the “swiss army knife for macOS” under the one homebrew package. I spent hours reading the source code for this CLI tool. If you are a fan of making some macOS changes using Terminal, you will appreciate the fact that this is just a wrapper on top of simple shell or Apple Script commands. Very nice project.

## [Software Over Time](https://blog.jim-nielsen.com/2022/software-over-time/)

A food for thoughts. I really like to keep in mind what Jim said every time i add additional complexity or extra abstraction to the codebase that I collaborate on with others.

> Responding to change in year one of the business as quickly as in year ten of the business would be a phenomenal feat. All companies accumulate complexity over time, which is a weight you drag with you.

## [wasmbuild - Using Rust in Deno and Web Apps](https://deno.com/blog/wasmbuild)

Deno and Rust are probably two technologies that excite me the most in the software development recently. ["Deno, a breath of fresh air for the server-side JavaScript"](/deno-a-breath-of-fresh-air-for-the-server-side-javascript/) summs it up really well what I think about this runtime. Rust from the flipside is something that I learn on my spare time and it is probably second time in my life when I am so excited about a piece of tech (last time is was when I learned how to use `addEventListener` on DOM elements). These two technologies are becoming a good freinds now. This article explains how simple it is to port a Rust function and import it in a JavaScript program. Exciting times.

## [Tauri 1.0 Release](https://tauri.app/blog/tauri_1_0/)

The biggest competitor to Electron just hit a stable release 1.0. Written in Rust and operatable using JavaScript API opens a huge opportunities for Frontend and Node.js developers to dip their toes into the world of native apps. The community feedback is really possitive.
