---
title: "Native CSS nesting landed"
summary: ""
photo: "2023-02-10.jpg"
---

Many web centuries ago, when I started using Sass, I fell in love with variables and nesting. Then, in 2016, I embraced the power of native CSS variables and published ["CSS Custom Properties explained"](/css-custom-properties-explained/). I have never used Sass variables since then. I still like and use Sass — mainly for nesting and a few other minor features  I can live without. I am stoked to tell you that [native CSS nesting](https://w3c.github.io/csswg-drafts/css-nesting-1/) landed, and maybe soon we will abandon CSS processors all together.

Before you read any further, be acknowledged that at the time of writing this article, [the browser support is limited](https://caniuse.com/css-nesting) to Chrome in version 112 and [Safari Technology Preview 162](https://webkit.org/blog/13703/release-notes-for-safari-technology-preview-162/). But hey, remember that CSS Grid was a bleeding edge thing a moment ago, and now you can't live without it 😜

## Let the community decide

["Help pick a syntax for CSS nesting" on Chrome Developers Blog](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/help-css-nesting/) followed by ["Help choose the syntax for CSS Nesting" on WebKit blog](https://webkit.org/blog/13607/help-choose-from-options-for-css-nesting-syntax/) suggested multiple syntax options. The decision was made based on community feedback. There are two reasons why I loved it so much — the collaboration between vendors and the sense of involvement in the shape of the Web standard.

We will return to the nesting in a second, but first, let me remind you about something and quote one of my favourite people on the Web — [Rachel Andrew](https://rachelandrew.co.uk). If you don't follow her, do it now.

> "So please. Participate, share your ideas, help us solve problems. And let’s work together for the future of the open web platform."

## CSS Nesting Works in practice

The syntax for native CSS nesting will fill familiar in most cases, but let me show you a few before/after examples that should give you a good overall grasp of it.

### Selectors nesting


```css
/* before */
article {
  color: salmon;
}

article .title {
  color: lime;
}
```

```css
/* after */
article {
  color: salmon;

  .title {
    color: lime;
  }
}
```

The most basic form of selector nesting should be familiar to all Sass users.

### Elements nesting

```css
/* before */
article {
  color: salmon;
}

article h1 {
  color: lime;
}
```

```css
/* after */
article {
  color: salmon;
  
  & h1 {
    color: lime;
  }
}
```

The difference is the `&` that preceded the `h1` selector. Unfortunately, this is required due to the limitations of browser parsing engines. My rule of thumb is simple. If the nested element is an ID (i.e. `#hi`), class (i.e. `.hi`), pseudo-class (i.e. `:has()`), pseudo-element (i.e. `::placeholder`) or attribute selector (i.e. `[class~="logo"]`), Sass-like nesting is OK. If the nested element is a "naked" element (i.e. `article`), the `&` symbol is required.

### Aaa

```css
/* before */
```

```css
/* after */
```
